(c) In Chapter 2 when suitable for human consumption, but in heading 05.11 if unfit for human consumption.

The offal referred to in paragraph (4) is classified in Chapter 2 when suitable for human consumption or generally in heading 05.11 or Chapter 41 if unfit for human consumption.

Guts, bladders and stomachs of animals (other than fish), whether or not edible, are classified in heading 05.04.

Animal fat presented separately is excluded (Chapter 15) (except in the case of pig fat, free of lean meat, and poultry fat, not rendered or otherwise extracted, which fall in heading 02.09 even if fit only for industrial use), but fat presented in the carcass or adhering to meat is treated as forming part of the meat.

Distinction between meat and meat offal of this Chapter and those of Chapter 16.

This Chapter covers meat and meat offal in the following states only, whether or not they have been previously scalded or similarly treated but not cooked :

(1) Fresh (including meat and meat offal, packed with salt as a temporary preservative during transport).

(2) Chilled, that is, reduced in temperature generally to around 0 °C, without being frozen.

(3) Frozen, that is, cooled to below the product's freezing point until it is frozen throughout.

(4) Salted, in brine, dried or smoked.

Meat and meat offal, slightly sprinkled with sugar or with an aqueous solution of sugar are also classified in this Chapter.

Meat and meat offal in the states referred to in Items (1) to (4) above remain classified in this Chapter whether or not they have undergone tenderising treatment with proteolytic enzymes (e.g., papain) or have been cut, chopped or minced (ground). In addition, mixtures or combinations of products of different headings of the Chapter (e.g., poultry meat of heading 02.07 covered with pig fat of heading 02.09) remain classified in this Chapter.

Meat and meat offal not falling in any heading of this Chapter are classified in Chapter 16, e.g. :

(a) Sausages and similar products, whether or not cooked (heading 16.01).

(b) Meat and meat offal cooked in any way (boiled, steamed, grilled, fried or roasted), or otherwise prepared or preserved by any process not provided for in this Chapter, including those merely covered with batter or bread crumbs, truffled or seasoned (e.g., with pepper and salt), as well as liver pastes and patés (heading 16.02).

This Chapter also includes meat and meat offal suitable for human consumption, whether or not cooked, in the form of flour or meal.