Chapter 2

Meat and edible meat offal

Note.

1.- This Chapter does not cover :

(a) Products of the kinds described in headings 02.01 to 02.08 or 02.10, unfit or unsuitable for human consumption;

(b) Guts, bladders or stomachs of animals (heading 05.04) or animal blood (heading 05.11 or 30.02); or

(c) Animal fat, other than products of heading 02.09 (Chapter 15).

GENERAL

This Chapter applies to meat in carcasses (i.e., the body of an animal with or without the head), half-carcasses (resulting from the lengthwise splitting of a carcass), quarters, pieces, etc., to meat offal, and to flours and meals of meat or meat offal, of all animals (except fish and crustaceans, molluscs and other aquatic invertebrates - Chapter 3), suitable for human consumption.

Meat and meat offal unsuitable or unfit for human consumption are excluded (heading 05.11). Flours, meals and pellets unfit for human consumption, obtained from meat or meat offal, are also excluded (heading 23.01).

Offal generally can be grouped in four categories :

(1) That which is mainly used for human consumption (e.g., heads and cuts thereof (including ears), feet, tails, hearts, tongues, thick skirts, thin skirts, cauls, throats, thymus glands).

(2) That which is used solely in the preparation of pharmaceutical products (e.g., gall bags, adrenal glands, placenta).

(3) That which can be used for human consumption or for the preparation of pharmaceutical products (e.g., livers, kidneys, lungs, brains, pancreas, spleens, spinal cords, ovaries, uteri, testes, udders, thyroid glands, pituitary glands).

(4) That, such as skins, which can be used for human consumption or for other purposes (e.g., manufacture of leather).

The offal referred to in paragraph (1), fresh, chilled, frozen, salted, in brine, dried or smoked, remains classified in this Chapter unless it is unfit for human consumption, in which case it is to be classified in heading 05.11.

The offal referred to in paragraph (2) falls in heading 05.10 when fresh, chilled, frozen or otherwise provisionally preserved and in heading 30.01 when dried.

The offal referred to in paragraph (3) is classified as follows :

(a) In heading 05.10 when provisionally preserved for the preparation of pharmaceutical products (e.g., in glycerol, acetone, alcohol, formaldehyde, sodium borate).

(b) In heading 30.01 when dried.